README.md, before:

# Python Programming Workshop
This repository contains the scripts and datasets used in the Python Programming workshops through Brandeis Library Data Services.

## Materials
- Get started by [downloading and installing Anaconda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Vh0qmWvh2mXWukiQh9d5mNgfPNvkJDLb4dNwAsGGY2A/edit?usp=sharing).
- Session 1: [Python setup and fundamentals](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/python-fundamentals.ipynb)
- Session 2: [Reading in and analyzing data.](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/archived/python-session2.py) 
- Session 3: Data visualization [[Script](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/archived/python_session3.ipynb) / [Planets.csv](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/data/Planets.csv) / [gapminder.csv](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/data/gapminder.csv) / [matplotlib.org](https://matplotlib.org/gallery.html)]
- Session 4: Statistics and Model Fitting [[Jupyter Notebook](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/archived/python-session4.ipynb) / [gapminder.csv](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/gapminder.csv)]
- Session 5: Loops and Conditionals [[Script](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/archived/python-session5.py) / [gapminder.csv](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/data/gapminder.csv)]
- Session 6: Writing Functions [[Jupyter Notebook](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/archived/python-session6.ipynb) / [inflammation-01.csv](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/data/inflammation-01.csv) / [inflammation-02.csv](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/data/inflammation-02.csv) / [inflammation-03.csv](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/data/inflammation-03.csv)]
- Session 7: Project Management [[script](https://github.com/DeisData/python/blob/master/archived/python-session7.py)] 

## Practice Examples and More Training
- [Practice Python: 30 beginner examples and solutions](http://www.practicepython.org/)
- [Kaggle Courses](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/overview)
- [Brandeis LinkedIn Learning](https://www.brandeis.edu/its/support/linkedin-learning/index.html)
  - [Python Statistics Essential Training on LinkedIn Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/python-statistics-essential-training/)
  - [Python for Data Visualization on LinkedIn Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/python-for-data-visualization/)
- Feeling competitive?  Check out [Kaggle Competitions](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions)

## Downloading materials
- To download an individual file, click to open, then right-click on RAW button to save as.  Make sure you keep the file extension!
- To download the entire python-programming repository, click the CODE button and Download ZIP.

## Viewing materials
- Both GitHub and [Jupyter nbViewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/) can be used to easily view Jupyter Notebook files by supplying the github link to session .ipynb files. 
- To work along, launch Jupyter Notebook (or Spyder for .py scripts) from your Anaconda Navigator.  

The following files have been sourced from the Portal Project Teaching Database.
The original data files can be found at: https://figshare.com/articles/Portal_Project_Teaching_Database/1314459

- `data/surveys.csv`
- `data/species.csv`

Commit message:

updated readme to reflect deisdata site

README.md, after:

# Python Programming Workshop

Welcome to the Brandeis Library Python Programming Workshop! Whether you are participating synchronously or asynchronously, all of the materials we will be using are listed below for each topic. 

Each lesson includes a link to a page on this site, as well as links to filled-in and code-along Python notebooks in [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/), an online cloud-based app that runs Python **without any installation necessary**.

## Topics
1. **<a href="https://deisdata.github.io/python/setup-install/" target="_blank">setup & install</a>**
2. **<a href="https://deisdata.github.io/python/jupyter/" target="_blank">jupyter</a>**
3. **<a href="https://deisdata.github.io/python/python-fundamentals/" target="_blank">python fundamentals</a>** **[** <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/python-fundamentals-codealong.ipynb" target="_blank">code-along notebook</a> / <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/python-fundamentals.ipynb" target="_blank">filled-in notebook</a> **]**
4. **<a href="https://deisdata.github.io/python/data-structures/" target="_blank">lists & dictionaries</a>** **[** <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/data-structures-codealong.ipynb" target="_blank">code-along notebook</a> / <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/data-structures.ipynb" target="_blank">filled-in notebook</a> **]**
5. **<a href="https://deisdata.github.io/python/conditionals/" target="_blank">conditionals</a>** **[** <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/conditionals-codealong.ipynb" target="_blank">code-along notebook</a> / <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/conditionals.ipynb" target="_blank">filled-in notebook</a> **]**
6. **<a href="https://deisdata.github.io/python/loops/" target="_blank">loops</a>** **[** <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/loops-codealong.ipynb" target="_blank">code-along notebook</a> / <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/loops.ipynb" target="_blank">filled-in notebook</a> **]**
7. **<a href="https://deisdata.github.io/python/numpy/" target="_blank">numpy</a>** **[** <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/numpy-pandas-codealong.ipynb" target="_blank">code-along notebook</a> / <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/numpy-pandas.ipynb" target="_blank">filled-in Jupyter notebook</a> **]**
8. **<a href="https://deisdata.github.io/python/pandas/" target="_blank">pandas</a>** **[** <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/numpy-pandas-codealong.ipynb" target="_blank">code-along notebook</a> / <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/numpy-pandas.ipynb" target="_blank">filled-in Jupyter notebook</a> **]**
9.  **<a href="https://deisdata.github.io/python/figures/" target="_blank">figures</a>** **[** <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/figures-codealong.ipynb" target="_blank">code-along notebook</a> / <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DeisData/python/blob/master/sequential/figures.ipynb" target="_blank">filled-in notebook</a>
 **]**

## Using Colab

We will be using [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/) to run our code. No Python installation will be required for this workshop; you just need to be signed into a Google account.  

**Saving notebooks to your drive**

Once the notebook is open in Colab, click on “File” in the upper left. If you cannot see “File”, try clicking the down arrow in the top right. Click “Save a copy in Drive”. You can rename the file, and the copy will be located in a new folder in your Google Drive called “Colab Notebooks”. You can now freely save changes to your personal version of the file.

If you would prefer not to use Colab, click on "File" and then "Download > Download .ipynb". You will need [Anaconda or Miniconda installed](/python/setup-install/). You can use a variety of different programs to interact with the notebook, such as [Spyder](https://www.spyder-ide.org/), [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/), and more.

## Practice Examples and More Training
- [Practice Python: 30 beginner examples and solutions](http://www.practicepython.org/)
- [Kaggle Courses](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/overview)
- [Brandeis LinkedIn Learning](https://www.brandeis.edu/its/support/linkedin-learning/index.html)
  - [Python Statistics Essential Training on LinkedIn Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/python-statistics-essential-training/)
  - [Python for Data Visualization on LinkedIn Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/python-for-data-visualization/)
- Feeling competitive?  Check out [Kaggle Competitions](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions)

## Downloading materials
- To download an individual file, click to open, then right-click on RAW button to save as.  Make sure you keep the file extension!
- To download the entire python-programming repository, click the CODE button and Download ZIP.


The following files have been sourced from the Portal Project Teaching Database.
The original data files can be found at: https://figshare.com/articles/Portal_Project_Teaching_Database/1314459

- `data/surveys.csv`
- `data/species.csv`
